So that's it for this module.
We added a bunch of custom widgets composed of built-in widgets Flutter ships us
and there, you learned about many new widgets and how to configure them, like the text field widgets, containers,
expanded, different buttons,
the ListTile widget here, the ListView widget and hopefully, all these pieces together form a bigger
picture that allows you to use these widgets in your own apps.
Now as I also emphasized throughout this module, it's normal that you have so many widgets and configuration
options that you sometimes forget about a widget or that you're not sure how to use a widget and in
such cases, the official docs and there, the widgets catalog is really a crucial tool to work with.
In addition, also be aware that in the official docs here, once you are in the API reference here where
you get to when you choose a widget from the widget catalog, you can always search the docs up there
and for example search for ListTile to find more information about that, on how to configure that
and also find demos, examples and more. So really use these docs to get the most out of this course
and most importantly, to get the most out of Flutter because that is what Flutter is all about and what
this module was all about.
You learned more about the Flutter fundamentals, about how to compose user interfaces from built-in
and custom widgets and that custom widgets are also composed from built-in and other custom widgets.
You learned how to style and configure widgets with their arguments and as I just mentioned, to use
the docs and the IDE support you're getting by hitting control space and by hovering over things and that
really should get you very far.
Now when we talk about styling and configuring widgets, it's important that there is a broad variety
of how you can configure and style widgets. For some widgets, you need an extra constructor, other widgets
are configured with enums or by instantiating some class with its main constructor
and there again, the docs and the IDE help you understand what you can pass for which argument. And often
there's more than one widget or more than one option that gets the job done
and that's also fine and perfectly normal in Flutter.
We also had a look at theming, which is the idea of defining that global theme in your MaterialApp
widget which you then can tap into from anywhere in your app with theme of context, which allows you
to define your global colours or your main text theme once and then use it anywhere in the app where
you want to use it
so that when you ever change that main color,
it changes everywhere. And the built-in widgets, a lot of the built-in widgets all the use these theme
settings automatically, so you get a nice styling there automatically without any extra setup.
Last but not least, we added some business logic to this app as well.
We added methods,
we manage data,
we used stateful widgets and there you learned that lifting state up is an important concept that
you need to manage state on the common denominator widget which holds all the other widgets that need
that data or that trigger a change that should change that data,
like in the example with our main widget and then the transaction list and the new transaction widget
and you also learned how to parse function references and data around so that every part in your widget
tree, every widget there, can do exactly the things it needs to do, be that outputting content or registering
events.
Last but not least, you also learned how to adjust the user interface to your logic, for example showing
that bottom modal sheet to have a nicer way of presenting that editing area to your users which
allows the users to add new transactions in our example app here.